# STM32-Baremetal-Programming
STM32 Baremetal Programming 







### Arm Design Philosophy and RISC Architecture

#### RISC Design Philosophy

RISC - Reduced Instruction set computer
CISC - Complex Instruction set computer
 
##### RISC
- Instruction is simply called as set of languages
- RISC focuses on reduces complexity of the instructions performed by hardware because it is easier to provide greater flexibility and intelligence in software rather than in hardware.
- RISC philosphy is implemented with four cardinal design
  1. Instructions - Reduced number of instructions
  2. Pipelines - Instructions are executed in parallel by pipelines
  3. Registers - Large general purpose register set
  4. Load-store - Processor operates on data held in registers

##### Arm As a Company
- Arm does not manufacure processors
- They do is they come up with the designs of the architecture and then they will sell to companies such as apple, samsung, texas, st microelectronics etc



#### Arm Design Philosphy

- ARM Processes are specifically designed to be small to reduce power consumption and extend battery
- Essentially for applications such as mobile phones and other embedded devices
-  Because of this, ARM is not pure RISC architecute in some sense the strength of the ARM is that is does not take the RISC Concept too far.
-  ARM core competency lies in taking RISC architecture, high code density and power efficiency and putting it in one processor.
-  All the Three RISC, high code density and power efficiency all the three combined in the ARM core.
-  **Code Density** - Simplye means the amount of space that an executable program takes up your memeory
-  **High Code Density** - High code density means the program takes less space. This is quite usefull for many application which have less memory space
- Fundamental Difference between RISC and CISC
  - As we know, in SDE compiler compiles the code and the generated binary file is downloaded onto the processor.
  - In RISC systems due to its philsophy of simplying instructions, greater complexity is placed on the compiler.
  - The compiler has to take the simple instructions and understand the complex functions those instructions are supposed to perform and generate a simple binary file which will be downloaded onto the processors, Therefore complexity is places on the compiler in the RISC system.
  - In CISC architecture the compiler does minimal work. A greater complexity is placed on the processor, in effect the processor must be designed complex enough to understand the complex files generated by the compiler. These above points are the fundamental difference between RISC and CISC



#### ARM Processors vs Intel Processors

- Main difference between ARM and Intel processor is the instruction set, ARM is RISC architecture and Intel is CISC architecture
- ARM uses Little Endian and Big Endian but Intel uses Little Endian, Endian Means it dicates the sequential order which bytes when arranged in the memeory



